.Dd September 11, 2024
.Dt MBLAZE-PROFILE 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mblaze-profile
.Nd configuration of the mblaze message system
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Xr mblaze 7
message system can be configured with a
.Pa profile
file,
which is located in the directory
.Pa ~/.mblaze
(or
.Ev MBLAZE
if set.)
.Pp
.Pa profile
consists of lines, similar to RFC 2822 headers, in the form
.Dl Ar key Ns \&: Ar value
.Pp
The key
.Sq Cm \&#
may be used to precede a comment:
.Dl Li "#:" Ar comment
.Pp
Please note that empty lines will halt parsing.
.Pp
The following
.Ar key Ns s
are used by
.Xr mblaze 7 :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Li Local\&-Mailbox\&:
Your primary mail address, used as the default value for
.Li From\&:
in
.Xr mcom 1 ,
and in
.Xr mscan 1
to recognize messages sent to you.
.It Li Alternate\&-Mailboxes\&:
A comma-separated list of mail addresses that also belong to you, for
.Xr mscan 1
to recognize messages sent by or directly to you.
.It Li FQDN\&:
The fully qualified domain name used for
.Li Message\&-Id\&:
generation in
.Xr mgenmid 1 .
.It Li Maildir\&:
If set,
.Xr mdirs 1
will use this maildir when no directories are supplied.
.It Li Outbox\&:
If set,
.Xr mcom 1
will save messages in this maildir after sending.
.It Li Drafts\&:
If set,
.Xr mcom 1
will create draft messages in this maildir (defaults to Outbox).
.It Li Reply-From\&:
A comma-separated list of display name and mail address pairs,
formatted like this:
.Dl Li Primary Name <myname1@domain1>, Name v.2 <myname2@domain2>, \[dq]Name, My Third\[dq] <myname3@domain3>, ...
The first of these that appears in the
.Li Delivered-To\&: ,
.Li To\&: ,
.Li Cc\&: ,
or
.Li Bcc\&:
header will be used as the
.Li From\&:
address in a reply.
If not set,
.Li Alternate\&-Mailboxes\&:
will be used as a default.
.It Li Scan\&-Format\&:
The default format string for
.Xr mscan 1 .
.It Li Sendmail\&:
The program that
.Xr mcom 1
will call to send mail.
(Default:
.Sq Li sendmail ) .
.It Li Sendmail\&-Args\&:
Flags to be passed to the
.Li Sendmail\&:
program.
(Default:
.Sq Fl t ) .
.It Li Senthook\&:
If set,
.Xr mcom 1
will call this on the mail file after sending,
and not refile the sent mail to outbox.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev MBLAZE
Directory containing mblaze configuration files.
(Default:
.Pa $HOME/.mblaze )
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Leah Neukirchen Aq Mt leah@vuxu.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm mblaze
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
