.Dd April 21, 2021
.Dt MCOM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mcom ,
.Nm mfwd ,
.Nm mbnc ,
.Nm mrep
.Nd compose, forward, bounce, reply, send messages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mcom
.Op Fl Ar header Ar values\ ...
.Op Ar recipients\ ...
.Nm mcom
.Fl r Op draft
.Nm mrep
.Op Fl noquote
.Op Fl Ar header Ar values\ ... Fl -
.Op Ar msg
.Nm mfwd
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl Ar header Ar values\ ... Fl -
.Op Ar msgs\ ...
.Nm mbnc
.Op Fl Ar header Ar values\ ... Fl -
.Op Ar msg
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm mcom
creates a new draft message and opens it in an editor.
After editing, a loop is started where the user can send,
re-edit or cancel the message.
Use
.Sq Nm Fl r
to resume the editing of a draft;
by default, the last modified draft will be edited.
.Pp
.Nm mrep
creates the draft such that the message will be a reply to
.Ar msg
.Po
or the current message
.Pc .
Unless
.Fl noquote
is passed, it will contain the original mail quoted.
.Pp
.Nm mfwd
creates the draft with a subject and body appropriate
for forwarding the message.
By default, messages are forwarded verbatim as MIME
.Sq Li message/rfc822
attachments.
Use
.Fl r
to forward as
.Xr mshow 1
rendered plain text, using RFC 934 message encapsulation.
.Pp
.Nm mbnc
creates the draft from the original
.Ar msg
.Po
or the current message
.Pc
including headers,
and adds a Resent-To header, to which the message will
be bounced directly.
.Po
See
.Xr mmsg 7
for the message argument syntax.
.Pc
.Pp
All commands can take optional
.Ar header
flags
.Pq which consist of two or more characters
to prefill header fields,
e.g. you can use
.Sq Nm mcom Fl to No merrilyn Fl cc No elea becci Fl subject No 'Party invite'
to create a draft with the To, Cc and Subject fields already set.
The flag
.Fl body Ar file
can be used to prepopulate the draft for
.Nm mcom
and
.Nm mrep
with the contents of
.Ar file .
.Pp
Note that these flags apply to
.Em all
arguments after them
.Po e.g.
.Sq mcom Fl attach No *.c
works
.Pc ,
so you
need to use
.Sq Fl -
when you want to use this feature together with
.Nm mrep ,
.Nm mfwd ,
or
.Nm mbnc .
.Pp
If the flag
.Fl send
is passed,
the message will be sent directly using the data on
the command line, and no editor or edit loop will be run.
.Sh MENU COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width 2n
.It Ic s
Send the message.
The MIME version will be used when one has been created.
.It Ic c
Cancel sending and quit, after displaying
the filename of the saved draft.
.It Ic m
Run
.Xr mmime 1
on the draft, and print the result of
.Ic mshow -t .
.It Ic e
Re-edit the draft.
.It Ic d
Delete the draft and quit.
.It Ic p
Preview the draft, using
.Xr mshow 1 .
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev EDITOR , Ev VISUAL
Editor used to compose messages.
(Default:
.Xr vi 1 )
.It Ev MBLAZE
Directory containing mblaze configuration files.
(Default:
.Pa $HOME/.mblaze )
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa snd.*
Draft messages, kept in current directory.
This can be configured in
.Xr mblaze-profile 5 .
.It Pa ${MBLAZE:-$HOME/.mblaze}/headers
Default headers for each message.
.It Pa ${MBLAZE:-$HOME/.mblaze}/signature No or Pa ~/.signature
Default signature.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmime 1 ,
.Xr mblaze-profile 5 ,
.Xr mmsg 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Leah Neukirchen Aq Mt leah@vuxu.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
