.Dd July 22, 2016
.Dt MFLAG 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mflag
.Nd manipulate maildir message flags
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl DFPRST
.Op Fl X Ar str
.br
.Op Fl dfprst
.Op Fl x Ar str
.br
.Op Fl v
.Op Ar msgs\ ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
changes the flags of the specified maildir
.Ar msgs
according to the options supplied.
.Po
See
.Xr mmsg 7
for the message argument syntax.
.Pc
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl D
Mark
.Ar msgs
as draft.
.It Fl F
Mark
.Ar msgs
as flagged.
.It Fl P
Mark
.Ar msgs
as passed
.Pq resent/forwarded/bounced .
.It Fl R
Mark
.Ar msgs
as replied.
.It Fl S
Mark
.Ar msgs
as seen.
.It Fl T
Mark
.Ar msgs
as trashed.
.It Fl X Ar str
Mark
.Ar msgs
with the characters in
.Ar str .
.It Fl d
Unmark
.Ar msgs
as draft.
.It Fl f
Unmark
.Ar msgs
as flagged.
.It Fl p
Unmark
.Ar msgs
as passed
.Pq resent/forwarded/bounced .
.It Fl r
Unmark
.Ar msgs
as replied.
.It Fl s
Unmark
.Ar msgs
as seen.
.It Fl t
Unmark
.Ar msgs
as trashed.
.It Fl x Ar str
Unmark
.Ar msgs
with the characters in
.Ar str .
.Pq Remember to use uppercase characters.
.It Fl v
Read messages from the standard input
.Pq or use the whole current sequence, if used interactively
and print the transformed list of filenames.
This can be used to keep the sequence intact in the case of renames.
.El
.Pp
Note that the link to
.Pa ${MBLAZE:-$HOME/.mblaze}/cur
is updated in all cases, when affected.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmsg 7
.Pp
.Lk https://cr.yp.to/proto/maildir.html "Using maildir format"
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Leah Neukirchen Aq Mt leah@vuxu.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
