.Dd August 17, 2016
.Dt MHDR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mhdr
.Nd print message headers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h Ar hdrs Op Fl p Ar parameter
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl M
.Op Fl A | Fl D
.Op Ar msgs\ ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
prints the headers of the specified
.Ar msgs .
.Po
See
.Xr mmsg 7
for the message argument syntax.
.Pc
.Pp
If no
.Ar msgs
are specified,
.Nm
will default to the current message.
.Pp
If no
.Ar hdrs
are specified,
.Nm
will print all headers.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h Ar hdrs
Only print the values of headers in the colon-separated list
.Ar hdrs .
.It Fl p Ar parameter
Extract a particular RFC 2045
.Ar parameter
from the specified
.Ar hdrs .
.It Fl d
Decode the
.Ar hdrs
according to RFC 2047.
.It Fl H
Prefix output lines with the filename of the message,
followed by a tab.
.It Fl M
Search for all occurrences of the
.Ar hdrs
.Pq default: only the first .
.It Fl A
Scan for RFC 5322 addresses in the
.Ar hdrs
and print them, one per line.
.It Fl D
Assume header contains RFC 5322 date and print as Unix timestamp.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success,
1 if no header was printed,
and >1 if an error occurs.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmsg 7
.Rs
.%A N. Freed
.%A N. Borenstein
.%D November 1996
.%R RFC 2045
.%T Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One: Format of Internet Message Bodies
.Re
.Rs
.%A N. Freed
.%A N. Borenstein
.%B MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part Three: Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII Text
.%R RFC 2047
.%D November 1996
.Re
.Rs
.%A P. Resnick (ed.)
.%B Internet Message Format
.%R RFC 5322
.%D October 2008
.Re
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Leah Neukirchen Aq Mt leah@vuxu.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
