.Dd December 13, 2016
.Dt MLIST 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mlist
.Nd list and filter messages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl DFPRST
.Op Fl X Ar str
.br
.Op Fl dfprst
.Op Fl x Ar str
.br
.Op Fl N | Fl n | Fl C | Fl c
.br
.Op Fl i
.Op Ar dirs\ ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
lists messages in the specified maildir folders
.Ar dirs ,
separated by newlines.
If used non-interactively with no specified folders,
.Nm
reads directory names from the standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl D
Only list messages marked as draft.
.It Fl F
Only list messages marked as flagged.
.It Fl P
Only list messages marked as passed
.Pq resent/forwarded/bounced .
.It Fl R
Only list messages marked as replied-to.
.It Fl S
Only list messages marked as seen.
.It Fl T
Only list messages marked as trashed.
.It Fl X Ar str
Only list messages marked with the characters in
.Ar str .
.It Fl d
Don't list messages marked as draft.
.It Fl f
Don't list messages marked as flagged.
.It Fl p
Don't list messages marked as passed
.Pq resent/forwarded/bounced .
.It Fl r
Don't list messages marked as replied-to.
.It Fl s
Don't list messages marked as seen.
.It Fl t
Don't list messages marked as trashed.
.It Fl x Ar str
Don't list messages marked with the characters in
.Ar str .
.Pq Remember to use uppercase characters.
.It Fl C
Only list messages in
.Pa cur .
.It Fl N
Only list messages in
.Pa new .
.It Fl c
Don't list messages in
.Pa cur .
.It Fl n
Don't list messages in
.Pa new .
.It Fl i
Don't print filenames.
Instead, print a one-line summary for each folder,
showing the number of unseen, flagged and total messages,
along with the folder name.
If two or more folders are specified,
a total for all folders will also be printed.
.El
.Pp
Multiple options are regarded as a conjunction.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr find 1
.Pp
.Lk https://cr.yp.to/proto/maildir.html "Using maildir format"
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Leah Neukirchen Aq Mt leah@vuxu.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
