.Dd July 30, 2020
.Dt MPICK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mpick
.Nd advanced message filter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl F Ar file
.Op Fl T
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl t Ar test
.Op Ar msgs\ ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
prints all matching messages.
.Pp
If used interactively,
.Nm
will default to the current sequence.
Otherwise,
.Nm
will read filenames from the standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl F Ar file
Read expression from
.Ar file
and only show matching messages, see
.Sx TESTS .
.It Fl T
Include whole thread.
.It Fl t Ar test
Only show messages matching the expression
.Ar test ,
see
.Sx TESTS .
.It Fl v
Print how many messages were tested and picked to standard error.
.El
.Sh TESTS
.Nm
tests are given by the following EBNF:
.Bd -literal
<expr>     ::= <expr> ? <expr> : <expr>  -- ternary operator
             | <expr> || <expr>  -- disjunction
             | <expr> && <expr>  -- conjunction
             | ! <expr>          -- negation
             | ( <expr> )
             | <expr> "|"  <str> -- pipe current mail to command
             | <expr> ">>" <str> -- append current mail to file
             | <expr> ">"  <str> -- write current mail to file
             | <flagprop>
             | <timeprop> <numop> <dur>
             | <numprop> <numop> <num>
             | <hdrprop> <decodeop> <strop> <str>
             | <strprop> <strop> <str>
             | prune             -- do not match further messages in thread
             | print             -- always true value
             | skip              -- always false value
             | <let>
             | <ident>

<flagprop> ::= child | draft | flagged | info | new | parent | passed
             | replied  | seen | selected | trashed

<timeprop> ::= atime | ctime | mtime | date

<numprop>  ::= depth | kept | replies | index | size | total

<numop>    ::= <= | < | >= | > | == | = | !=

<dur>      ::= "./path"          -- mtime of relative path
             | "/path"           -- mtime of absolute path
             | "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS"
             | "YYYY-MM-DD"      -- at midnight
             | "HH:MM:SS"        -- today
             | "HH:MM"           -- today
             | "-[0-9]+d"        -- n days ago at midnight
             | "-[0-9]+h"        -- n hours before now
             | "-[0-9]+m"        -- n minutes before now
             | "-[0-9]+s"        -- n seconds before now
             | [0-9]+            -- absolute epoch time

<num>      ::= [0-9]+ ( c        -- *1
                      | b        -- *512
                      | k        -- *1024
                      | M        -- *1024*1024
                      | G        -- *1024*1024*1024
                      | T )?     -- *1024*1024*1024*1024
             | cur               -- index of cur message

<hdrprop>  ::= from | to | subject | <str>

<decodeop> ::= . addr          -- match address parts
             | . disp          -- match address display parts
             |                 -- empty matches raw headers

<strprop>  ::= path

<strop>    ::= == | = | !=       -- string (in)equality
             | ===    | !===     -- case insensitive string (in)equality
             | ~~     | !~~      -- glob (fnmatch)
             | ~~~    | !~~~     -- case insensitive glob (fnmatch)
             | =~     | !=~ | !~ -- POSIX Extended Regular Expressions
             | =~~    | !=~~     -- case insensitive POSIX Extended Regular Expressions

<str>      ::= " ([^"] | "")+ "  -- use "" for a single " inside "
             | $[A-Za-z0-9_]+    -- environment variable

-- let expressions evaluate the expression following the `in` keyword,
-- the bindings are lazily evaluated.
<let>      ::= { let <ident> = <scope> } in <scope>

-- Inside the scope previously defined idents are replaced with expressions
<scope>    ::= <expr>

<ident>    ::= [A-Za-z_][A-Za-z0-9_]+
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
You can pick mails to move them into another
.Dv maildir .
.Pp
.Dl mv $(mlist ./INBOX | mpick -t 'from =~ \&"@github\&"') ./github/cur
.Pp
Or you can use
.Nm
to pick mails from the current sequence.
.Pp
.Dl mpick -t 'subject =~~ \&"mblaze\&"' | mscan
.Pp
A more advanced
.Nm
expression to pick mails in a certain time span,
which are flagged as replied or not seen.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mpick -t 'date >= \&"2016-01-01\&" && date < \&"2017-01-01\&" && (replied || !seen)'
.Ed
.Pp
And to find other mblaze users.
.Pp
.Dl mpick -t '"User-Agent" =~~ \&"mblaze\&"' | mscan
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lr 1 ,
.Xr mailx 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Leah Neukirchen Aq Mt leah@vuxu.org
.An Duncan Overbruck Aq Mt mail@duncano.de
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
