.Dd January 2, 2020
.Dt MSCAN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mscan
.Nd generate one-line message summaries
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl I
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl f Ar format
.Ar msgs\ ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
prints a one line summary for each message.
.Po
See
.Xr mmsg 7
for the message argument syntax.
.Pc
.Pp
If no
.Ar msgs
are specified,
.Nm
reads filenames from the standard input,
or scans the mails in the current sequence if used interactively.
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
will spawn a pager on its output when used interactively.
See
.Sx ENVIRONMENT
for details on how to control this behaviour.
.Pp
The default
.Ar format
is
.Pp
.Dl %c%u%r %-3n %10d %17f %t %2i%s
.Pp
that is, for each message,
.Nm
prints relevant flags,
the sequence number
.Pq if applicable ,
the date,
the originator,
and the subject of the message
.Pq possibly indented .
A default
.Nm
format may be specified in the user's
.Xr mblaze-profile 5 .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl I
Force ISO date output,
even for
.Sq Cm "%d" .
.It Fl n
Only print message numbers
.Pq or filenames, if the message is not in the current sequence .
.It Fl v
Print how many messages were scanned to standard error.
.It Fl f Ar format
Format according to the string
.Ar format ,
inspired by
.Xr printf 3 .
.Pp
The following formatting codes may be used
.Po
.Ar wd
overrides the default width
.Pc :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm \en
Newline.
.It Cm \et
Tab.
.It Cm \&%%
A plain
.Sq Li \&% .
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "b"
Human-readable size of the message
.Pq in kilobytes .
.It Cm "%c"
A
.Sq Li >
on the current message,
otherwise a blank.
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "d"
Adaptive date of the message.
When
.Ar wd
is greater or equal to 19,
the timestamp is shown in dottime format
.Pq Lk https://dotti.me/ .
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "D"
ISO date of the message
.Pq year, month, day .
When
.Ar wd
is greater or equal to 16,
the hour-minute timestamp will also be shown.
When
.Ar wd
is greater or equal to 19,
seconds will also be shown.
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "f"
The
.Sq Li From\&:
.Po
or
.Sq Li To\&: ,
if the message is from us
.Pc .
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "F"
The maildir folder the message resides in.
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "i"
.Ar wd
.Pq default: 1
spaces per indentation depth in the thread tree.
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "I"
The
.Sq Li Message\&-ID\&:
of the message.
.It Cm "%M"
The raw maildir flags of the message.
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "n"
The number of the message in the current sequence.
.It Cm "%r"
A
.Sq Li \&-
on a replied-to message, or a
.Sq Li \&:
on a forwarded message, or a blank.
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "R"
The filename of the message.
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "s"
The subject of the message
.Pq defaults to remaining width .
.It Cm "%" Ns Oo Ar wd Oc Ns Cm "S"
The subject of the message
.Pq defaults to remaining width ,
with leading
.Sq Li Re\&: ,
.Sq Li Fwd\&:
etc. stripped.
.It Cm "%t"
A
.Sq Li \&>
if you are in
.Sq Li To\&: ,
a
.Sq Li \&+
if you are in
.Sq Li Cc\&: ,
a
.Sq Li \&:
if you are in
.Sq Li Resent\&-To\&: ,
or a blank.
.It Cm "%u"
An
.Sq Li \&*
on a flagged message, a
.Sq Li \&.
on an unseen message, an
.Sq Li x
on a trashed message, or a blank.
.El
.El
.Sh MESSAGE FLAGS
.Bl -tag -width 2n -compact
.It Li \&>
The current message
.It Li \&.
An unseen message
.It Li x
A trashed message
.It Li \&*
A flagged message
.It Li \&-
A replied-to message
.El
.Sh SUBJECT FLAGS
.Bl -tag -width 2n -compact
.It Li \&>
You are in
.Sq Li To\&:
.It Li \&+
You are in
.Sq Li Cc\&:
.It Li \&:
You are in
.Sq Li Resent\&-To\&:
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width MBLAZE_PAGER
.It Ev MBLAZE_PAGER
Any non-empty value of the environment variable
.Ev MBLAZE_PAGER
is used instead of the standard pagination program, specified in
.Ev PAGER .
When empty, or set to
.Sq Ic cat ,
no pager is spawned.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mblaze-profile 5 ,
.Xr mmsg 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Leah Neukirchen Aq Mt leah@vuxu.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
