.Dd July 22, 2016
.Dt MSEQ 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mseq
.Nd manipulate message sequences
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl fr
.Op Fl c Ar msg
.Ar msgs\ ...
.Nm
.Fl S
.Op Fl fr
<
.Ar sequence
.Nm
.Fl A
.Op Fl fr
<
.Ar sequence
.Nm
.Fl C Ar msg
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
prints, fixes and sets the message sequence.
.Po
See
.Xr mmsg 7
for the message argument syntax.
.Pc
.Pp
If no
.Ar msgs
are passed and
.Nm
is used interactively,
.Nm
prints all messages in the sequence.
.Pp
With
.Fl S
or
.Fl A ,
.Nm
will replace
.Pq resp. append
the default sequence.
If the standard output is not a terminal,
the new sequence is also printed.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar msg
Behave as if
.Ar msg
was the current message.
.It Fl f
Fix non-existing filenames by searching for a message with the same
maildir id
.Pq but different flags .
.It Fl r
Remove leading indentation from the filenames.
.It Fl S
Set the message sequence to the filenames passed on standard input.
.It Fl A
Like
.Fl S ,
but append to the message sequence instead of replacing it.
.It Fl C Ar msg
Set the current message to
.Ar msg
and exit.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev MBLAZE
Directory containing mblaze configuration.
.Po
Default:
.Pa $HOME/.mblaze
.Pc
.It Ev MAILCUR
Symbolic link referring to the current message.
.Po
Default:
.Pa ${MBLAZE:-$HOME/.mblaze}/cur
.Pc
.It Ev MAILDOT
When set to a filename, overrides the current message.
.Po
Prefer using
.Fl c
instead.
.Pc
.It Ev MAILSEQ
File were the sequence is stored.
.Po
Default:
.Pa ${MBLAZE:-$HOME/.mblaze}/seq
.Pc
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmsg 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Leah Neukirchen Aq Mt leah@vuxu.org
.Sh LICENSE
.Nm
is in the public domain.
.Pp
To the extent possible under law,
the creator of this work
has waived all copyright and related or
neighboring rights to this work.
.Pp
.Lk http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
