## 1.2 (2021-12-12)

* Caution! The tools mdeliver and mexport were buggy in handling and
  generation of trailing empty lines in MBOX-RD.  Do not import
  mbox files generated by mexport >=1.2 with mdeliver <1.2 if you
  require verbatim message delivery.
* mshow: add "-A all" to render all attachments
* msed: match header names case insensitively
* mless: prefer setting LESSKEYIN and using .mlesskey
* mcom: take Delivered-To into account for choosing From address
* Many bug fixes.

## 1.1 (2021-01-14)

* mcom: allow tilde prefixed path for profile's outbox setting
* mcom: detect and report mmime errors
* add contrib/mmailto, a handler for mailto: links
* Bug fixes.

## 1.0 (2020-09-12)

* Caution! Backwards incompatible changes:
  * As a message name, `-` now refers to the message on the standard input,
    and not the previous message anymore.  Use `.-` to refer to the previous
    message in a short way.
    The tools will print a warning if you use `-` and the standard input
    comes from a TTY.
  * mpick: use the -F flag to read script files.
  * mpick: remove msglist support, use plain mmsg(7) arguments.
* Many mblaze tools now make use of pledge(2) on OpenBSD.
* add contrib/mcount, a tool to count mails
* mrep: use Reply-From configuration to find From header
* Many bug fixes.

## 0.7 (2020-05-15)

* All tools now follow symlinks to mails.
* mdirs: add -a to list all subfolders, ignoring Maildir++ convention.
* mcom: add preview alias for show command.
* mrep/mbnc: allow only one message as argument.
* maddr: add -d to only print display name.
* mthread: add -r to reverse top-level order.
* mlist: print number of matches when message selection is in place.
* mpick: many improvements.
* Many bug fixes.

## 0.6 (2020-01-18)

* mfwd: prefix Subject with "Fwd:".
* mscan: add dottime formatting.
* mlist: look at maildir/new too for messages.
* Many bug and portability fixes.

## 0.5.1 (2019-03-03)

* mdeliver: preserve mtime in mrefile
* mdirs: add -0 to separate folders by NUL characters
* Fixes for buffer-overflows, found by fuzzing.
* Fixes for memleaks.

## 0.5 (2019-02-09)

* New tool msearch to wrap several mail indexers.
* New zsh completion _mblaze.
* mnext/mprev were removed (you can call `mless +`/`mless .-`).
* The GnuPG tools in contrib/ now use gpg2.
* mshow exits with error if it could not extract all attachments
* mrep: add -noquote to disable quoting the message replied to
* mdeliver: keep permissions of messages
* mcom: aborting the editor is now more like delete than cancel
* mcom: add -send to send directly without editing
* mcom: check if mail is formatted sensibly
* mpick: new flag -v for statistics
* mscan: new flag -v for statistics
* magrep: add -h, which is like -p but doesn't print the file name
* mscan: prioritize displaying trashed mail over other markers
* mpick: fix off-by-one in expression parsing
* Many bug fixes.

## 0.4 (2018-08-15)

* New tool mrefile to move or copy messages.
* contrib/mp7m: add application/pkcs7-mime decoder
* mcom: allow setting arbitrary headers from command line
* mcom: add -body to prepopulate drafts
* mcom: mark drafts as seen after sending
* mcom: update flags after mrep/mbnc/mfwd
* mshow: add -B to decode MIME parameters in broken mails
* magrep: add -l flag
* Many bug fixes.

## 0.3.2 (2018-02-13)

* magrep: add *:REGEX to search in any header
* Fix of a buffer overflow in blaze822_multipart.
* Small bug fixes.
* Many documentation improvements by Larry Hynes.

## 0.3.1 (2018-01-30)

* mless: support $NO_COLOR
* mcolor: support $NO_COLOR
* blaze822.h: ensure PATH_MAX is defined
* Improved documentation.
* Many fixes for address parser.

## 0.3 (2018-01-12)

* New tool mflow to reformat format=flowed plain text mails.
* New tool mbnc to bounce mails (send original mail to someone else).
* mshow filters can output raw text now, e.g. for HTML rendering with colors.
* mrep can quote mail that doesn't have a plain text part.
* mcom runs mmime when deemed necessary.
* mhdr can extract MIME parameters.
* New contrib: mrecode
* New contrib: mraw
* mshow regards non-MIME mails as MIME mails with one part now.
* mshow -F to disable MIME filters.
* mpick supports negations now.
* msed can remove headers depending on their value.
* Improved UTF-8 parsing.
* Improved documentation.
* Numerous bug fixes and portability fixes.

## 0.2 (2017-07-17)

* New sequence syntax `m:+n` for `n` messages after message `m`.
* Threading shortcuts `=`, `_`, `^` for `.=`, `._`, `.^`.
* Sequence related errors are now reported.
* minc and mlist normalize slashes in paths.
* mfwd now generates conforming message/rfc822 parts.
* mthread can add optional folders (e.g. your outbox) to resolve message ids.
* mcom now adds Date: just before sending or cancelling the mail.
* VIOLATIONS.md documents how mblaze works with certain common mistakes.
* Full documentation revamp by Larry Hynes.
* Fix rare crash looking for mail body.
* Numerous small bug and portability fixes.

## 0.1 (2017-06-24)

* Initial release
